CASMCMS-8194: Add procedure for purging CFS event queue. (#2330)
Cray-HPE/docs-csm: operations/configuration_management/Troubleshoot_CFS_Sessions_Failing_to_Start.md

# Troubleshoot CFS Sessions Failing to Start

Troubleshoot issues where Configuration Framework Service \(CFS\) sessions are being created, but the pods are never created and never run.

## Prerequisites

> CFS-batcher is creating automatic sessions, but pods aren't starting for those sessions.  There are a number of communication reasons this could be happening, so check the `cfs-batcher` and `cfs-operator` logs for these signatures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CFS-batcher is creating automatic sessions, but pods are not starting for those sessions. There are a number of communication reasons this could be happening, so check the `cfs-batcher` and `cfs-operator` logs for these signatures.
```

CFS-batcher logs should show that it is creating sessions, but giving up waiting for those sessions to start:

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```

2022-08-24 04:09:12,391 - WARNING - batcher.batch - Session batcher-d7f9bf52-e5f6-4742-849b-4086b1d59ab1 is stuck in pending and will be deleted.
2022-08-24 04:09:12,492 - WARNING - batcher.batch - Session batcher-77c3c4d1-df39-4ebc-a6b4-32b8e102bdc5 is stuck in pending and will be deleted.
2022-08-24 04:09:12,638 - WARNING - batcher.batch - Session batcher-f9a513c1-47ad-4539-98cc-b3f418f6b8bd is stuck in pending and will be deleted.
2022-08-24 04:09:12,761 - WARNING - batcher.batch - Session batcher-7a291f2f-0149-46d7-889b-08331a46af2c is stuck in pending and will be deleted.
2022-08-24 04:09:15,144 - WARNING - batcher.batch - Session batcher-b6c35dcc-b8b9-421b-9090-23bfc2a72ac3 is stuck in pending and will be deleted.
```

> CFS-operator logs should show that it is attempting to create sessions but is unable to find the session records.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
CFS-operator logs should show that it is attempting to create sessions, but is unable to find the session records.
```

> ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```text
```

2022-08-24 05:48:06,476 - INFO    - cray.cfs.operator.events.session_events - EVENT: CREATE batcher-3b78941e-1c06-474c-89fe-bf241f5002e4
2022-08-24 05:48:06,509 - ERROR   - cray.cfs.operator.cfs.sessions - Unexpected response from CFS: 404 Client Error: Not Found for url: http://cray-cfs-api/v2/sessions/batcher-3b78941e-1c06-474c-89fe-bf241f5002e4
```

> If these two things are true, it is likely that CFS is creating new sessions faster than it can keep up with session creation events.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If these two things are true, then it is likely that CFS is creating new sessions faster than it can keep up with session creation events.
```

## Procedure

> The primary method of handling this problem is the `batcherMaxBackoff` option.  This will slow automatic session creation in these situations and given the `cfs-operator` a chance to catch up on the backlog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The primary method of handling this problem is the `batcherMaxBackoff` option. This will slow automatic session creation in these situations and give the `cfs-operator` a chance to catch up.
```

> If this value has been changed from it's default value of 3600 (1 hour), it should be set back to that value using `cray cfs options update --batcher-max-backoff 3600`.  The issue should eventually resolve automatically.

Reviewer: ````suggestion

(`ncn-mw#`) If this value has been changed from its default value of 3600 (1 hour), then it should be set back to that value:

 ```bash
cray cfs options update --batcher-max-backoff 3600
```

The issue should eventually resolve automatically.
````

> If there is a reason that users cannot wait for the back-off to resolve this automatically, the following procedure can be used to purge the event queue.  This will disrupt CFS operation and may disrupt existing sessions, so caution should be used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If there is a reason that users cannot wait for the back-off to resolve this automatically, then the following procedure can be used to purge the event queue. This will disrupt CFS operation and may disrupt existing sessions, so caution should be used.
```

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Slow down session creation.  If any others users or scripts are creating sessions, make sure they have stopped.  CFS-batcher should be slowed by setting it's check interval to an arbitrary high number.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Slow down session creation.

    If any others users or scripts are creating sessions, make sure that they have stopped. CFS-batcher should be slowed by setting its check interval to an arbitrary high number.
```

    ```bash
    cray cfs options update --batcher-check-interval 99999
    ```

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Start a new consumer on the Kafka event queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Start a new consumer on the Kafka event queue.
```

>     Exec into a Kafka pod.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. (`ncn-mw#`) Open a shell in a Kafka pod.
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```bash
```

>     kubectl -n services  exec -it  cray-shared-kafka-kafka-0 -c kafka -- /bin/bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        kubectl -n services  exec -it  cray-shared-kafka-kafka-0 -c kafka -- /bin/bash
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```
```

>     Then start a console consumer on the cfs event topic using the `cfs-operator` consumer group.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. (`pod#`) Start a console consumer on the CFS event topic using the `cfs-operator` consumer group.
```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```bash
```

>     bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server cray-shared-kafka-kafka-0.cray-shared-kafka-kafka-brokers.services.svc.cluster.local:9092 --topic cfs-session-events --group cfs-operator

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        bin/kafka-console-consumer.sh --bootstrap-server cray-shared-kafka-kafka-0.cray-shared-kafka-kafka-brokers.services.svc.cluster.local:9092 \
            --topic cfs-session-events --group cfs-operator
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```
```

>    This command will likely produce not output at first as Kafka re-balances the consumer group.  Leave this command running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
       This command will likely produce not output at first, while Kafka re-balances the consumer group. Leave this command running.
```

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) In a new window, scale down the `cfs-operator`.  This forces the console consumer to handle the entire event queue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) In a new window, scale down the `cfs-operator`.

    This forces the console consumer to handle the entire event queue.
```

    ```bash
    kubectl -n services scale --replicas=0 deployment/cray-cfs-operator
    ```

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Wait until the output from the console consumer stops.  Once the `cfs-operator` is scaled down there should be a final burst of output.  Wait until all output has stopped for at least a minute before continuing.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (`ncn-mw#`) Wait until the output from the console consumer stops.

    Once the `cfs-operator` is scaled down, there should be a final burst of output from the console consumer. Wait until all output has stopped for at least a minute before continuing.
```

> 1. (`ncn-mw#`) Cancel out of the console consumer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. (`pod#`) Cancel the console consumer command and exit the pod shell.
```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Restore `cfs-operator`.

    ```bash
    kubectl -n services scale --replicas=1 deployment/cray-cfs-operator
    ```

1. (`ncn-mw#`) Restore `cfs-batcher`.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    1. Restore the batcher check interval.

```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```bash
```

>     cray cfs options update --batcher-check-interval 10

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        cray cfs options update --batcher-check-interval 10
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

    1. Initiate a rolling restart of the batcher.

```

>     ```bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```bash
```

>     kubectl -n services rollout restart deployment/cray-cfs-batcher

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        kubectl -n services rollout restart deployment/cray-cfs-batcher
```

>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        ```
```
